# Know-The-Self

Throughout high school I was interested in the medical field and took classes such as biology and anatomy to reflect my interest.  My first two years at Rutgers University I majored in Biomedical Engineering because I was convinced that majoring in Biology was a waste.  Then, during the second semester of my sophomore year, I looked at all of the engineering major curriculums and realized mechanical engineering had a much more interesting class selection.

The last two years of my college career, I worked as a technician for GoFoton!.  I had worked on developing a finite analysis heat transfer model by setting configuration settings for a program called OpenFOAM which was written in C++.  There was no GUI, the config files were objects, and it would only run on Linux.  Navigating through the strange world of programming had challenged me like no other and honed my skills for using forums and querying google with questions for coding information.

My senior year of college I was contemplating whether to branch on towards an academic route or a technical route.  I was first offered a job at General Dynamics Electric Boat as an Acoustic Engineer and really connected with the work environment, the company’s mission, and the employees.  Then two months later I was accepted into the University of Michigan’s PhD program for Mechanical Engineering.  The university flew me out to Michigan for three days to experience their program and I was unable to connect with any of the professors.   Therefore, with feeling a better connect with Electric Boat I ended up accepting the position as an Acoustic Engineer.

Within the first few days of working I realized the position I thought I had accepted wasn’t the same as the actual position.  I was doing systems engineering paperwork instead of the finite element analysis modeling I thought I had interviewed for.  Above all, I realized living in the sticks of Connecticut where the only other person in the bar was the bartender was a very depressing way to live.  I looked for other mechanical engineering jobs near major cities, but could not find any.

Even though the job was not my passion, it was where I started my journey to become a developer.  While work was slow, I would get bored and work on programming checkers with VBA in Excel.  The game was allowed for two players, click selection for the player’s pieces, automatic move calculation for each piece, and move history capabilities.  I was able to code this game because I had taken two previous computer science related courses for my engineering degree and understood basic logic.

My good friend then told me about his new job as a web developer and how the field was greatly growing.  He advised me to learn JavaScript.  I started studying on CodeAcademy and FreeCodeCamp almost every day after work.  The algorithm puzzles had really peaked my interest because they were so deeply rooted in the engineering mentality of taking real world problems and modeling them in easy to solve (for the computer) computations.

As a child growing up with two parents who are in the computer science field, I had always rebelled against going into their field because I wanted some individuality.  But when researching the field I realized how vast it spans and I was able to blossom my individuality while still follow their footsteps.

